Now hopefully you've added these
five data layers into your map
frame and you can see them in
your layers window here on the
left.
First of all, we're going to go
ahead and turn off the ESRI
standard basemap as we don't
need it anymore and it can slow
us down a bit.
And now we'll take a quick look
at all the layers that we've
added.
So going from the top, we'll
turn off the other layers.
We have our
biomonitoring_Ziama2019 layer
and these are vector point data
and then we'll take a look at
the roads and tracks and so this
is vector line data representing
the roads and tracks in and
around the Ziama protected area.
The Ziama_Landscape layer is a
polygon representing the
protected area of Ziama.
And then we have the two rasters
at the bottom.
So we have a land cover raster
here and we've got the Ziama_DEM
raster.
And we're going to talk more
about these two raster layers in
another video.
In this video we're going to
talk about how to look at the
attributes of your data.
So if we take the biomonitoring
points layer to start with, we
can just see the location of
these points on our map, but we
don't actually know what these
points are representing.
So to look at the data
associated with this layer, we
can right click on the layer and
then click Open Attribute Table.
You can also do the same thing
using one of your toolbars.
If you have the layer selected,
you can go up into your
attributes toolbar, which is up
here, and click on the one that
looks like a table and that's
going to open up your attribute
table for this point data layer.
And now in this table we can see
the information attached to each
point in this layer.
So we've got columns for date,
latitude, longitude, species and
indicator.
And each row in this table is
representing one point that we
can see on our map.
And so now we can see that each
point has a date associated with
it, a latitude and longitude, a
species that was sighted and the
indicator of that sighting.
We can use this attribute table
to select the data that we want.
To do this we just need to click
on the row number and then it's
going to select that row and we
can see on our map that it's
highlighted one of the points
that is associated with that
data.
So we can also select multiple
adjacent points just by holding
down on our mouse and dragging
up and down.
Or to select multiple non
adjacent points we can hold down
the control button on our
computer and then click on the
other rows that we want to
select so you can see the
selected data in the map canvas.
To clear our selection we need
to go in the top of the
attribute table and click on
this button here which if you
hover your mouse over it will
tell you it deselects all the
selected features in your table.
So we want to click on that and
then it clears our selection.
And that's how to look at the
attributes of your data layers
within QGIS.